[ci] release 2023-07 (#1397)
Shopify/hydrogen: docs/components/product-variant/productoptionsprovider.md

---
gid: 80d51c7e-fafe-11eb-9a03-0242ac130003
title: ProductOptionsProvider
description: The ProductOptionsProvider component sets up a context with state that tracks the selected variant and options.
---

The `ProductOptionsProvider` component sets up a context with state that tracks the selected variant and options. Descendents of this component can use the [`useProductOptions`](https://shopify.dev/api/hydrogen/hooks/product-variant/useproductoptions) hook.

## Example code

```tsx
import {ProductOptionsProvider, gql} from '@shopify/hydrogen';

const QUERY = gql`
  query product($handle: String!) {
    product: product(handle: $handle) {
      compareAtPriceRange {
        maxVariantPrice {
          currencyCode
          amount
        }
        minVariantPrice {
          currencyCode
          amount
        }
      }
      descriptionHtml
      handle
      id
      media(first: $numProductMedia) {

>         nodes {

Reviewer: This query can be improved via … 

```gql
 fragment MediaFields on Media {
    mediaContentType
    alt
    previewImage {
      url
    }
    ... on MediaImage {
      id
      image {
        url
        width
        height
      }
    }
    ... on Video {
      id
      sources {
        mimeType
        url
      }
    }
    ... on Model3d {
      id
      sources {
        mimeType
        url
      }
    }
    ... on ExternalVideo {
      id
      embedUrl
      host
    }
  }
```

Sadly the id can't actually be pulled up to the top.

>         nodes {

Reviewer: This query can be improved via … 

```gql
 fragment MediaFields on Media {
    mediaContentType
    alt
    previewImage {
      url
    }
    ... on MediaImage {
      id
      image {
        url
        width
        height
      }
    }
    ... on Video {
      id
      sources {
        mimeType
        url
      }
    }
    ... on Model3d {
      id
      sources {
        mimeType
        url
      }
    }
    ... on ExternalVideo {
      id
      embedUrl
      host
    }
  }
```

Sadly the id can't actually be pulled up to the top.

          ... on MediaImage {
            mediaContentType
            image {
              id
              url
              altText
              width
              height
            }
          }
          ... on Video {
            mediaContentType
            id
            previewImage {
              url
            }
            sources {
              mimeType
              url
            }
          }
          ... on ExternalVideo {
            mediaContentType
            id
            embedUrl
            host
          }
          ... on Model3d {
            mediaContentType
            id
            alt
            mediaContentType
            previewImage {
              url
            }
            sources {
              url
            }
          }
        }
      }

>       metafields(first: $numProductMetafields) {

Reviewer: Metafields as an array will need to be removed. Our API no longer supports this.

Reviewer 2: Yup that work is coming up. This was just a copy/paste from previous file.

---
gid: 80d51c7e-fafe-11eb-9a03-0242ac130003
title: ProductOptionsProvider

> description: The ProductOptionsProvider component sets up a context with selected product variant state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: The ProductOptionsProvider component sets up a context with state that tracks the selected variant and options
```

            edges {
              node {
                id
                description
                name
                options {
                  name
                  value
                }
                priceAdjustments {
                  orderCount
                  adjustmentValue {
                    ... on SellingPlanFixedAmountPriceAdjustment {
                      adjustmentAmount {
                        currencyCode
                        amount
                      }
                    }
                    ... on SellingPlanFixedPriceAdjustment {
                      price {
                        currencyCode
                        amount
                      }
                    }
                    ... on SellingPlanPercentagePriceAdjustment {
                      adjustmentPercentage
                    }
                  }
                }
                recurringDeliveries
              }
            }
          }
          appName
          name
          options {
            name
            values
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`;

export function Product() {
  const {data} = useShopQuery({query: QUERY});

  return (

>     <ProductOptionsProvider data={data.product} initialVariantId="some-id">{/* Your JSX */}</ProductProvider>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <ProductOptionsProvider data={data.product} initialVariantId="some-id">{/* Your JSX */}</ProductOptionsProvider>
```

| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children          | <code>ReactNode</code>                                                            | A `ReactNode` element.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| data              | <code>PartialDeep&#60;ProductType&#62;</code>                                     | An object with fields that correspond to the Storefront API's [Product object](/api/storefront/reference/products/product).                                                                  |

> | initialVariantId? | <code>Parameters&#60;typeof useProductOption&#62;['0']['initialvariantid']</code> | The initially selected variant. <br></br>The following logic applies to `initialVariantId`:<ul><li>If `initialVariantId` is provided, then it's used, even if it's out of stock.</li><li>If `initialVariantId` is provided, but is `null`, then no variant is used.</li><li>If nothing is passed to `initialVariantId`, and you're in a `ProductProvider`, then `selectedVariant.id` is used.</li><li>If nothing is passed to `initialVariantId` and you're not in a `ProductProvider`, then the first available or in-stock variant is used.</li><li>If nothing is passed to `initialVariantId`, you're not in a `ProductProvider`, and no variants are in stock, then the first variant is used.</li></ul> |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| initialVariantId? | <code>Parameters&#60;typeof useProductOption&#62;['0']['initialvariantid']</code> | The initially selected variant. <br></br>The following logic applies to `initialVariantId`:<ul><li>If `initialVariantId` is provided, then it's used, even if it's out of stock.</li><li>If `initialVariantId` is provided, but is `null`, then no variant is used.</li><li>If nothing is passed to `initialVariantId`, and you're in a `ProductOptionsProvider` component, then `selectedVariant.id` is used.</li><li>If nothing is passed to `initialVariantId` and you're not in a `ProductOptionsProvider` component, then the first available or in-stock variant is used.</li><li>If nothing is passed to `initialVariantId`, you're not in a `ProductOptionsProvider` component, and no variants are in stock, then the first variant is used.</li></ul> |
```

## Component type

> The `ProductProvider` component is a client component, which means that it renders on the client. For more information about component types, refer to [React Server Components](https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/framework/react-server-components).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ProductOptionsProvider` component is a client component, which means that it renders on the client. For more information about component types, refer to [React Server Components](https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/framework/react-server-components).
```
